[Core] Enable JSON Structured Logging Format in Ray (#50471)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/ray-observability/user-guides/configure-logging.md

> import logging

Reviewer: @angelinalg can you help review this file pls?

![Set up python loggers](../images/setup-logger-application.png)

> If you want to control the logger for particular actors or tasks, view [customizing logger for individual worker process](#customizing-worker-process-loggers) below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to control the logger for particular actors or tasks, view the following [customizing logger for individual worker process](#customizing-worker-process-loggers).
```
want to avoid above/below in docs

::::

### Customizing worker process loggers

> When using Ray, Tasks and Actors are executed remotely in Ray's worker processes. To provide your own logging configuration for the worker processes, customize the worker loggers with the instructions below:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray executes Tasks and Actors remotely in Ray's worker processes. To provide your own logging configuration for the worker processes, customize the worker loggers with the instructions below:
```
active voice vs. passive voice

        logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)

    def log(self, msg):
        logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
        logger.info(msg)

actor = Actor.remote()
ray.get(actor.log.remote("A log message for an actor."))

@ray.remote
def f(msg):
    logging.basicConfig(level=logging.INFO)
    logger = logging.getLogger(__name__)
    logger.info(msg)

ray.get(f.remote("A log message for a task."))
```

```bash
(Actor pid=179641) INFO:__main__:A log message for an actor.
(f pid=177572) INFO:__main__:A log message for a task.
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Ray Core: all worker processes of a job

```{admonition} Caution
:class: caution
This is an experimental feature. The semantic of the API is subject to change.
It doesn't support [Ray Client](ray-client-ref) yet.
```

Use `worker_process_setup_hook` to apply the new logging configuration to all worker processes within a job.

```python
# driver.py
def logging_setup_func():
    logger = logging.getLogger("ray")
    logger.setLevel(logging.DEBUG)
    warnings.simplefilter("always")

ray.init(runtime_env={"worker_process_setup_hook": logging_setup_func})

logging_setup_func()
```
:::

:::{tab-item} Ray libraries

> If you are using any of the Ray libraries, follow the instructions provided in the documentation for the library.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you use any of the Ray libraries, follow the instructions provided in the documentation for the library.
```

:::

::::

(structured-logging)=
## Structured logging
Implement structured logging to enable downstream users and applications to consume the logs efficiently.

### Application logs

Ray enables users to configure the Python logging library to output logs in a structured format. This setup standardizes log entries, making them easier to handle.

#### Configure structured logging for Ray Core

```{admonition} Ray libraries
If you are using any of the Ray libraries, follow the instructions provided in the documentation for the library.
```

> Below are the ways to configure Ray Core's structure logging format:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following methods are ways to configure Ray Core's structure logging format:
```
avoid below/above

##### Method 1: Configure structured logging with `ray.init`
```python
ray.init(
    log_to_driver=False,
    logging_config=ray.LoggingConfig(encoding="JSON", log_level="INFO")
)
```

> Users can configure the following parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure the following parameters:
```
prefer consistently using second-person

* `encoding`: The encoding format for the logs. The default is `TEXT` for plain text logs.
The other option is `JSON` for structured logs.
In both `TEXT` and `JSON` encoding formats, the logs include Ray-specific fields such as `job_id`, `worker_id`, `node_id`, `actor_id`, and `task_id`, if available.

* `log_level`: The log level for the driver process. The default is `INFO`.

> Available log levels are defined in the [Python logging library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logging-levels).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python defines available log levels in the [Python logging library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html#logging-levels).
```
active vs. passive

Author: I think here it falls into the following exception scenarios of the active vs. passive:
>To emphasize an object over an action.

It is to emphasize the available log levels the users can set.

Reviewer 2: I think we still want to prefer active voice most times, but ya i see what you're saying. Very minor though I don't think it makes much of a diff here either way

When you set up `logging_config` in `ray.init`, it configures the root loggers for the driver process, Ray actors, and Ray tasks.

```{admonition} note
The `log_to_driver` parameter is set to `False` to disable logging to the driver
process as the redirected logs to the driver will include prefixes that made the logs
not JSON parsable.
```

##### Method 2: Configure structured logging with an environment variable

> You can configure the `RAY_LOGGING_CONFIG_ENCODING` environment variable to set the encoding format for the logs.
> You can set the value to `TEXT` or `JSON`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can set the `RAY_LOGGING_CONFIG_ENCODING` environment variable to `TEXT` or `JSON` to set the encoding format for the logs.
```
a little clearer and more concise

Note that the environment variable needs to be set before `import ray`.

```python
import os
os.environ["RAY_LOGGING_CONFIG_ENCODING"] = "JSON"

import ray
import logging

ray.init(log_to_driver=False)
# Use the root logger to print log messages.
```
#### Example

> The following example configures the `LoggingConfig` to output logs in a structured JSON format and set the log level to `INFO`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example configures the `LoggingConfig` to output logs in a structured JSON format and sets the log level to `INFO`.
```

ray.get(actor_instance.print_message.remote())

"""
{"asctime": "2024-07-15 19:06:06,469", "levelname": "INFO", "message": "Driver process", "filename": "test.py", "lineno": 12, "job_id": "03000000", "worker_id": "03000000ffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffffff", "node_id": "824f9d7c6a82a0faf42b91f07b42667df0831034a713f04f28ba84b9"}
(f pid=4871) {"asctime": "2024-07-15 19:06:07,435", "levelname": "INFO", "message": "A Ray task", "filename": "test.py", "lineno": 17, "job_id": "03000000", "worker_id": "f8f84d811683e5d9e03744a4386b26a5cd6f6ca09fc5cdc8e1dbe5a3", "node_id": "824f9d7c6a82a0faf42b91f07b42667df0831034a713f04f28ba84b9", "task_id": "fa31b89f94899135ffffffffffffffffffffffff03000000"}
(actor pid=4939) {"asctime": "2024-07-15 19:06:08,700", "levelname": "INFO", "message": "A Ray actor", "filename": "test.py", "lineno": 23, "job_id": "03000000", "worker_id": "51d62f87e3867cdcad9aecd7b431068ea433b3104c8cc4ed1db6eef7", "node_id": "824f9d7c6a82a0faf42b91f07b42667df0831034a713f04f28ba84b9", "actor_id": "4a03b12afe5598a00eadcf9503000000", "task_id": "0ab01f2d6283d7194a03b12afe5598a00eadcf9503000000"}
"""
```

#### Add metadata to structured logs

> You can add extra fields to the log entries by using the `extra` parameter in the `logger.info` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add extra fields to the log entries by using the `extra` parameter in the `logger.info` method.
```
prefer imperative when it makes sense to be more concise

::::

### System logs

> Most of Ray’s system or component logs are structured by default. <br />

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray structures most system or component logs by default. <br />
```
active vs. passive
